---
id: hp5d6
title: Local server [WIP]
file_version: 1.1.1
app_version: 1.1.5
---

## Introduction

The way we loaded Three.js in the previous lesson is the easiest. Unfortunately, it has two main limitations.

First, we only have access to “core” classes. There are dozens of classes in this core and we can do a lot with those, but we don’t master everything. As an example, in a future lesson, we are going to need access to the `OrbitControls` class, which is not available in the core classes.

Secondly, when opening an HTML file like this, your browser won’t let JavaScript execute any instructions. As an example, you won’t be able to load local files like textures or models. This is actually a good thing for security reasons. You don’t want a script to be able to load files from your computer just because you opened an HTML file that you thought was safe.

But still, we need to be able to run JavaScript code as if it were an online website and to do that, we need to run a local server.

There are many ways of handling those issues, but the simplest solution is to use a “build tool” or “bundler”.server and doing a bunch of other optimisations for us. If you are not confident about doing that again on your own, don’t worry, we are going to do it together in the next lesson. Again, most of the following lessons have been recorded using Webpack and you might see slight differences. You should be able to ignore those differences.

<br/>

<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://app.swimm.io/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBVGhyZWVKU19Qcm9qZWN0JTNBJTNBZGFuaWVsYXBhc3Nvcw==/docs/hp5d6).
